# Reflection Four
This week left me feeling untethered. Partially because I was dealing with new material, but also because this week, more than in all the previous weeks, I had the sense that I was barely scratching the surface of something massive. I think that this can best be exemplified when, in [_Big Data for Dead People_](https://historyonics.blogspot.com/2013/12/big-data-for-dead-people-digital.html), Tim Hitchcock (2013) discussed the potential of using macro/micro analytics tools to “ask questions we know computers can answer” that do only confirm our current historical knowledge. This perspective was also [supported by Matthew Lincoln]( https://matthewlincoln.net/2015/03/21/confabulation-in-the-humanities.html) (2015).  For example, during my Voyant analysis of Dr. Melodee Beels’ data, one of the words I chose was “Indians” ¬because – based on the time and location of the text we were analyzing – it would be a word that would get an interesting distribution. And I was right, but I didn’t learn anything new from it. In short: _**it was not surprising**_.  Hitchcock (2013) asserts that reading text, even massive amounts of text at once, is the “vanilla sex” of digital history. I suppose, then, that all the text analysis I did this week is the equivalent of looking lovingly at my partner while we assume a missionary position. Overall, this analogy really only supports my feeling that I’m dipping my toes into deep waters. Because this feeling stuck with me all week, I wanted to honour it here. I am not yet sure how I can move beyond it, besides spending more time in this field. 

Like I did last week, I think that it’s important to acknowledge that history cannot be positivist, and is in actuality something that we reconstruct after the fact with our own modern biases. Thus, the narratives we create will also naturally be influenced by how we create them. I have therefore been thinking about how the affordances of digital work – specifically the ability to jump in between the micro and the macro – can both enable and discourage particular narratives within historical work. Often everything was both a giant mass of text and a tiny snippet of a phrase. It simultaneously felt too big ¬_and_ too small to be understood as a cohesive narrative. I couldn’t find a balance, and so I frequently found myself struggling this week to determine how I would tell a story with the text I analyzed. There was one occasion, however, where I saw the possibility for a narrative. While working with AntCont, I saw the phrase “[dear honey](https://github.com/sidxi/week-four/blob/master/antconc_results_dear%20honey.txt)” by chance. Because it caught my attention, I searched for it and found that it appeared 315 times. From all of these words, I had chanced on something that, to me, felt remarkably tender. While I don’t have the time or the knowledge to continue down that thread at the moment, the emotion it spurred in me was powerful. Hitchcock (2013) believes (and I agree) that a common thread between “normal” history and digital history is the telling of stories. To do any history, one must engage with the material openly, imaginatively, and empathetically. I am starting to see how digital history can help create new kinds of narratives.

Lastly, these new narratives – the ones that can only be generated through digital history – must be taken seriously. A [whitepaper published by the Roy Rosenzweig Center for History and New Media]( https://rrchnm.org/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/11/digital-history-and-argument.RRCHNM.pdf) (2017) asserts that for historians, digital collections are overlooked in favour of printed knowledge. In particular, we still promote text – and by this, I mean linear, printed words – above all other forms of knowledge. Digital history work is deemed disruptive and unpredictable, partially because its methods aren’t easily intelligible to an untrained person, and also because it forces the reader to consider new perspectives that may deprioritize text in favour of images, sounds, and data. Despite the fact that the practices of digital history are still done by historians to the same rigor, this fact is often discarded because of its unfamiliarity. Hopefully, as digital history work starts to become more prominent, it will be better understood as just another set of tools that can be used to tell the stories of the past. 
